---
title: Tried Introducing Modoium Remote
date: 2025-04-20
category: Unity
description: Introduction of a feature that makes debugging convenient when the smartphone device is the platform in Unity development
tags: [unity, plugin, tool, android, ios]
recommended: true
thumbnail: https://play-lh.googleusercontent.com/biTX1cxwIjiOLBH1g60Io_pYh4f5tOTIfmjE5lLD2Qbv8cNM32pJ9hUg8sxRP0nOBL76=w240-h480-rw
---

Hello! I'm PanKUN.

I introduced and used Modoium Remote in an indie project.
I will talk about the introduction method and where I got stuck.

- [Official URL](https://modoium.com/jp/)
- [Referenced Page](https://uuma-memo.xyz/2024/09/01/1080/)
- [Official Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?list=TLGG3e7swiebjj0xNDExMjAyNA&v=CEazEAeKkpM)
- [User Guide](https://clickedcorp.notion.site/Modoium-User-Guide-b3e19e05c69b465395b8d534cf7f774b)

---

## Introduction Method

It is very easy to introduce.

1. Purchase the relevant asset from the asset store and import it into the project you want to introduce (It's free).
2. The Modoium Remote Status window will open. (If it doesn't open, open it from `Window > Modoium Remote > View Status`.)
3. Install the app provided by Modoium on the hardware you want to operate during playback.
   Android is [here](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.modoium.client.app)
   iOS is [here](https://apps.apple.com/kr/app/modoium/id6587558465)

This completes the introduction.

---

## How to use

The conditions for connecting the editor and the device are as follows.

1. PC and smartphone are connected to the same network.
2. The network setting of the PC is private.

In this state, open the Modoium Remote Status window in the project and open the Modoium app on the device side.

If the Unity project name is listed on the Modoium app on the device side, it is correct.

Select it and enter the number listed in `4) Enter the verification code below if necessary:` of the Modoium Remote Status window into the Modium app side.

It should work with the above.

> [! WARNING] It seems that it does not work if Gameview is Simulator.
> Actually it didn't.

---

### Stuck Points

I will talk about the events that occurred during collaborative work in the indie team.

#### Connection and input are possible on some devices, but drawing is not done

The affected device is Xperia, and I haven't been able to isolate whether it's specific to the owner's device or Xperia.
There is a possibility of the influence of other applications or memory issues, but since it was handled remotely, the cause has not been investigated.

---

#### When imported on the windows side and shared via github, DLLException errors occurred frequently on the macOS side of other workers

I initially thought this was because dynamic libraries differ between dylib, dll, and os, but the project is managed by git and uses the gitIgnore recommended by Unity.
So only the manifest and imported package information are shared, so the question is why the dll is in the other worker's place.
If the windows package is imported even if imported on macOS, it would be an official bug, but it was not reported in particular, so I don't know well.

---

### Finally

That was the Modoium Remote introduction minutes.
There is nothing particular to be careful about, and if it doesn't work properly, just honestly use different hardware, and be careful about using it in a Windows environment, it was a story of a handy tool that can be used immediately after introduction.
Please try it when developing on mobile devices.
